Add product brief and PRFAQ (#318)
mike-north/vaultkeeper: docs/product/PRFAQ.md

# vaultkeeper PRFAQ

> Internal working document. The press release is aspirational-at-launch framing; the FAQ is
> honest about what exists today versus what is in flight. Kept current by the maintainers.

---

## Press Release

### vaultkeeper brings policy-enforced secret custody to every developer — using the credential store you already own

**Developers can now get the secret-handling posture that previously required a business-tier
subscription — scoped tokens, expiring grants, per-use approval — locally, offline, and free,

> on top of macOS Keychain, 1Password, a YubiKey, or an encrypted file.**

Author: I don't think there's any reason why we couldn't integrate things like Dashlane or other secrets backends. So let's strike the balance between stating the things that are currently supported but an intent to support other backends where we see demand.

Author: Reworded — backend lists now state today's set plus openness to further stores (Dashlane named) where demand appears, in both docs.

Today, the standard way to give a tool a secret is still an environment variable holding a
plaintext credential, sourced from a dotfile or pasted into a config. Every MCP server config
with a `GITHUB_TOKEN` in it, every `.env` in a backup, every API key in shell history is the
same story: a long-lived, unscoped credential at rest in plaintext, readable by anything and
revocable only by rotating it everywhere at once. The tools that fix this properly — scoped
service tokens, dedicated vaults, per-use biometric approval — largely gate those capabilities

> behind paid business tiers or cloud subscriptions.

Author: The lack of context awareness of these alternatives also means that in the current state of the world, there's a trade-off between security and friction. VaultKeeper by allowing the user to define policy provides a path where you can have security and reduce friction.

Author: Added — the comparison now leads with the context-awareness point: without policy at resolution you trade security against friction; policy dissolves the tradeoff.

vaultkeeper unbundles **storage** from **policy**. Your secrets live in whatever backend you
already trust — macOS Keychain, 1Password, a YubiKey, Windows DPAPI, libsecret, or an encrypted
file store — and vaultkeeper supplies the governance layer those stores lack: capability tokens
scoped by expiry, usage count, and executable identity; per-use human-presence requirements
(a Touch ID tap or YubiKey touch *for this operation, right now*); delegated access patterns
where the raw secret never enters the calling process at all; and full local revocation.

> Adoption is a gradient, not a rewrite. `vaultkeeper run --profile github-mcp -- npx

Author: I like that we're showing an example command here, but let's demonstrate the flexibility by showing how this could be used to create a CLI wrapper for a conventional CLI command. Or this example, which is an MCP wrapper. Or even making either secrets or vaultkeeper leases available to an agentic chat session by wrapping the CLI that kicks off that chat session.

Author: Expanded to three wrapper examples: MCP server, ordinary CLI invocation (terraform apply), and wrapping an agentic chat session's launcher so its whole environment resolves under policy.

same-UID process can read a child's environment on some platforms, attach a debugger, or drive
vaultkeeper's own APIs. Presence-gated backends (YubiKey touch, Touch ID) are the exception —
they force a fresh physical action per operation that no same-UID software can fake. We state
this plainly because a secrets tool that overclaims is worse than none: vaultkeeper raises the
floor dramatically without pretending to be a sandbox.

### How is this different from dotenvx / `op run` / SOPS?

Those tools solve *encrypted at rest, injected at runtime* — and solve it well. vaultkeeper's
differences are: (1) **policy at resolution** — trust tiers on the calling executable, TTLs,
usage limits, per-use presence — not just decryption; (2) **storage-agnostic** — the same policy
over Keychain, 1Password, YubiKey, DPAPI, libsecret, or a file, rather than one blessed store;
(3) **the lease rung** — consumers can hold a capability instead of the secret, which nothing
env-injection-shaped offers; (4) **no subscription** — the scoped-token/dedicated-vault posture
that 1Password gates behind Business tiers, locally and free. What those tools have that

> vaultkeeper deliberately does not: team sync and cloud distribution (see non-goals).

Author: Format these as numbered bullets

Author: Done — numbered list.

### What is a VaultKeeper lease?

An encrypted, serializable capability token that occupies the env-var slot *instead of* a
secret. It carries expiry, a usage limit, and revocation state; redeeming it requires the local

> vault key, so a lease captured into a log aggregator or bug report is dead on arrival anywhere

Author: > redeeming it requires the local vault key

this needs a parenthetical to describe what we mean by local vault key, including which pieces of software have access to it and how that is enforced.

Author: Added the parenthetical: the vault key is the encryption key generated at setup, held in the configured backend, usable only by the local vaultkeeper process — enforced by the backend's access control plus owner-only permissions on the encrypted key state.

> else. Signing leases authorize signature operations for a bounded session — minted with human

Author: > signature operations

i'm not sure what you mean by signature operations.

Author: Reworded — a signing lease lets a process ask vaultkeeper to produce signatures with a key it never sees; 'signature operations' is gone.

presence at launch, usable non-interactively until expiry, revocable individually or per-key.

> ### What is the adoption gradient?

Author: This needs a lot more explanation. It only makes sense to you and me because we've been talking about an adoption gradient, but you have to write this doc in a way that's intended to be read by those not familiar with the project or our discussions about it.

Author: Rewrote the whole answer for a reader with zero project context — retitled to 'How do I adopt this without rewriting my tools?', leading with per-secret upgrades and no forced migration before the three levels.

> Three rungs, chosen **per secret**, permanently mixable in one profile:

Author: > permanently mixable 

this is not going to have meaning to a reader unless we connect it with what the consequence of being permanently mixable means.

Author: Connected to its consequence: no migration cliff, no penalty for upgrading one credential while its neighbors stay put — a profile holds mixed levels indefinitely.

> 1. **Plaintext on disk** — the status quo being replaced.

Author: > **Plaintext on disk**

let's get more specific here and call this something like "environment variables holding plaintext secrets in your terminal config (e.g. `.bashrc`)"

Author: Done — level 1 is now 'environment variables holding plaintext secrets in your terminal or tool config', with .bashrc/mcp.json/.env named.

2. **Resolved environment** — the real secret, never at rest, materialized under policy into
   one process. Works with any unmodified tool. This is the on-ramp, and the MCP-server wrapper

>    is its headline: point `mcp.json` at `vaultkeeper run` and the PAT leaves the file.

Author: We need to explain the resolved environment piece in a way that will be relatable to anyone who has managed secrets exposed to commands that are run in a terminal. Maybe the thing that will resonate here is securely passing an environment variable with a secret in it to an individual CLI command.

The key difference between this an "plaintext on disk" is it's no longer floating around on disk for random other things to see it.

Author: Reframed around the relatable case: 'pass this key to this one command without leaving it lying around in a file, made routine' — and the difference from level 1 stated as no-longer-floating-on-disk for everything else to see.

3. **Lease** — the env var carries a capability, not the secret. Requires the consumer to speak
   vaultkeeper; today that means first-party tooling, by choice (a language-agnostic local
   redemption endpoint is a named future epic, gated on an installed base worth integrating

>    against).

Author: This is another one where we could do better by explaining how this third tier improves upon the second. So just like in the second tier, it's only the processes that you choose that get the secret. But with this third tier, you get the policy layer. So you're no longer just passing a GitHub API key to a process. you are passing something that under the right conditions allows operations to be performed using a GitHub API key that the process doesn't have any direct access to. And this means you can define a time window or a boundary of what is and isn't allowed. A key thing that might resonate with readers here is you actually have the ability to define policy that may be more granular than what the permissions system on the system you're calling into allows. For example, permitting GitHub issues to be updated but only if they have a certain GitHub issue label on them. GitHub's permissioning system does not allow this, but when you're doing delegated fetch and you have a policy layer, you have the ability to define on a per invocation basis whether something should or shouldn't be allowed.

Author: Rewrote with your framing: level 3 keeps level 2's only-the-chosen-process property but swaps the key for a lease, and the policy can be more granular than the target system's own permission model — the GitHub issues-only-with-this-label example is now in the text.

### Does this work for AI-agent fleets?

It is one of the primary design cases. Agents need credentials but must not *hold* them in any
durable way; some agents (e.g. an adjudicator that signs policy-change proposals) need signing
identities that the agents they govern cannot extract or invoke. vaultkeeper's answer: keys born
inside a backend and never exported; signatures produced backend-side; session-scoped signing
leases minted at harness launch with presence proven once; and honest documentation that
*non-invocability* additionally requires OS-level isolation between the privileged harness and
the processes it governs — custody cannot substitute for process isolation, and we say so.

### Can a signature prove a human was present?

Not yet, and not claimed. Presence is enforced at signing time by capable backends and is
visible to the local caller, but a verifier of the resulting signature cannot currently

> distinguish a presence-backed signature from an automation one. Making assurance

Author: > Presence is enforced at signing time by capable backends and is
visible to the local caller, but a verifier of the resulting signature cannot currently distinguish a presence-backed signature from an automation one.

Is this strictly true? We're the ones that are configuring how we engage with these secret backends, and there are certain mechanisms like a YubiKey where at the moment a signature is applied, we know positively that the human presence was an element of what just happened. why not encode that into the signature in some way (has to be tamper-proof, but I think it's possible)?

Author: You're right — 'cannot' was too flat. Rewrote: presence-bound keys (touch-required hardware policy attested at enrollment makes every valid signature proof of presence by construction) as the strong mechanism, a vault-signed assurance assertion for software-enforced backends with its trust root stated, and the whole thing positioned as roadmap rather than impossibility.

verifier-visible is a known, deliberately-deferred design question shared with downstream
attestation tooling.

### How do humans and automation coexist as signers?

Identically. An identity is an Ed25519 keypair; nothing about being a human or an agent pins an
identity to a role. What differs is **custody** — an attribute of the identity that can
strengthen over time (file-backed today, presence-gated hardware tomorrow) without the identity
becoming a different actor. Role semantics (who may author, who may approve) belong to the
verifying system's policy, not to vaultkeeper.

### What about testing? Secrets tooling is notoriously untestable.

vaultkeeper ships its own test doubles as products: an in-memory backend with real Ed25519
signing and scriptable fault injection (throwing the same typed errors production throws), a
presence simulator that is structurally unreachable from production code, and — in flight —
backend-flavored doubles carrying real data shapes and choreography, held to the *same
conformance corpus* as the real adapters. Manual testing reduces to a minutes-scale,

> tool-upgrade-triggered audit: "does the real adapter still match its double?"

Author: Reworded — the answer now distinguishes shipped (InMemoryBackend + TestVault), in review (signing, fault injection, presence simulator), and planned (flavored doubles), without claiming the richer doubles ship today.

# vaultkeeper PRFAQ

> Internal working document. The press release is aspirational-at-launch framing; the FAQ is

> > honest about what exists today versus what is in flight. Kept current by the maintainers.

Author: Reworded — the blockquote now frames both docs as the 1.0 definition written from launch perspective; 'Internal working document' is gone.

---

## Press Release

### vaultkeeper brings policy-enforced secret custody to every developer — using the credential store you already own

> **Developers can now get the secret-handling posture that previously required a business-tier

Author: Does this undersell the product a little bit? Even these business tier subscriptions to things like 1Password do not allow flexible policy to be defined. All they do is provide more powerful mechanisms. can access which secrets (e.g. 1p service accounts)

Author: Agreed — headline now reads 'get — and go beyond —' with per-invocation policy called out as something no subscription tier offers at any price; body notes paid tiers strengthen who-may-access mechanisms without offering conditions-of-use policy.

service tokens, dedicated vaults, per-use biometric approval — largely gate those capabilities
behind paid business tiers or cloud subscriptions.

vaultkeeper unbundles **storage** from **policy**. Your secrets live in whatever backend you
already trust — today: macOS Keychain, 1Password, a YubiKey, Windows DPAPI, the Linux Secret
Service (`secret-tool`), or an encrypted file store, with further stores (Dashlane and others)
on the table wherever demand appears, since a backend is a small adapter over a stable
interface — and vaultkeeper supplies the governance layer those stores lack: capability tokens
scoped by expiry, usage count, and executable identity; per-use human-presence requirements
(a Touch ID tap or YubiKey touch *for this operation, right now*); delegated access patterns
where the raw secret never enters the calling process at all; and full local revocation.

Adoption is a gradient, not a rewrite, and the wrapper works on anything that reads
environment variables. Wrap an MCP server so the PAT leaves the config file
(`vaultkeeper run --profile github-mcp -- npx @github/mcp-server`); wrap an ordinary CLI for

> one policy-resolved invocation (`vaultkeeper run --profile deploy -- terraform apply`); or

Author: I think we need to cover "what is a profile?"

Author: Added a 'What is a profile?' FAQ — named per-project file, env vars → secret source + materialization + per-entry policy; names and policy only, never values; committable so weakening becomes a reviewable diff.

wrap the command that launches an agentic coding session, so the agent's whole environment —
real secrets and vaultkeeper leases alike — is resolved under policy at launch and nothing
lives in a dotfile. In every case the tool is unmodified: secrets are materialized only into
the child process, under policy, with nothing at rest. Tools that integrate further can hold a
**VaultKeeper lease** instead of the secret itself — an encrypted, expiring, revocable
capability that is worthless off the machine and worthless after its window closes. Signing
keys go further still: the private key never leaves the backend at all; consumers request
signatures, never key material.

The same identity primitives serve human and automation signers alike. An agent fleet can hold
signing identities whose keys are born inside vaultkeeper and cannot be extracted by the
processes they govern — with human presence proven once at session establishment rather than
demanded per signature.

vaultkeeper is a single Rust core reachable from a native CLI and from TypeScript via

> WebAssembly, with a data-driven conformance suite holding every implementation to the same

Author: Rather than talk about TypeScript and WebAssembly, I think corporate environment friendliness is the value proposition here. WebAssembly and TypeScript are a means to an end. And that end is the ability to run in a corporate environment that has approved the use of Node.js (meaning it's compatible w/ things like google/santa). OSS means it's fully auditable

Author: Rewrote the paragraph around corporate-environment friendliness: runs where Node.js is already approved (Santa-compatible), native binary where permitted, fully auditable OSS — TS/WASM demoted to the means.

expiring, usage-limited, revocable lease instead of a forever-credential.

### What does it *not* defend against?

An attacker with arbitrary code execution as your own user, on your unlocked machine. A
same-UID process can read a child's environment on some platforms, attach a debugger, or drive
vaultkeeper's own APIs. Presence-gated backends (YubiKey touch, Touch ID) are the exception —
they force a fresh physical action per operation that no same-UID software can fake. We state
this plainly because a secrets tool that overclaims is worse than none: vaultkeeper raises the
floor dramatically without pretending to be a sandbox.

### How is this different from dotenvx / `op run` / SOPS?

Those tools solve *encrypted at rest, injected at runtime* — and solve it well. But they are
not context-aware: they decrypt for whoever invokes them, so in practice you choose between
security and friction (lock things down and pay for it on every invocation, or loosen them
and hope). Because vaultkeeper's resolution step evaluates *policy* — who is asking, with
what trust, for how long — it can offer both at once: strong defaults with low-friction
day-to-day use. The concrete differences:

> 1. **Policy at resolution** — trust tiers on the calling executable, TTLs, usage limits,

Author: > usage limits

what are we trying to articulate here? Just how many times a command may be invoked or are we trying to say more? When I think about usage limits, I think rate limits. but aren't we trying to say something bigger here something like custom rules (e.g. https://github.com/mike-north/celscript or similar)

Author: Reworded to 'policy at resolution, per invocation' — time windows, use counts, presence — with custom rule expressions named as the direction (policy as expressive as your rules, not as coarse as a permission checkbox).

   per-use presence — not just decryption.
2. **Storage-agnostic** — the same policy over Keychain, 1Password, YubiKey, DPAPI, the

>    Linux Secret Service, or a file, rather than one blessed store.

Author: Two value propositions here that we could call out more obviously. VaultKeeper works with the secret store you already use. And then the second is no lock-in. If you invest in scripting against VaultKeeper, you may deal with macOS keychain for some things and 1Password for other things and a YubiKey at work. And this gives you a unified facade

Author: I think this is particularly important for library and tool authors because it means you get to support whatever secret-keeping backend your user may have. And you don't have to deal with the complexity of manual testing flows and all of the intricacies of these different ways to store secrets. you can integrate with a secret keeping store just going through Vault Keeper and then your user gets to choose how they wish to protect these sensitive secrets and credentials.

Author: Both called out: item 2 is now 'works with the store you already use, with no lock-in' — one unified facade, mixing Keychain/1Password/YubiKey freely, changing stores never changes tooling.

> 3. **The lease rung** — consumers can hold a capability instead of the secret, which nothing

Author: > capability

I believe this is the first place where we use the word capability, so we should have a parenthetical that helps a reader understand what we mean here.

Author: Added the parenthetical at first use: a capability is a token that permits specific operations to be performed on the holder's behalf — not the secret itself.

   env-injection-shaped offers.
4. **No subscription** — the scoped-token/dedicated-vault posture that 1Password gates behind
   Business tiers, locally and free.

What those tools have that vaultkeeper deliberately does not: team sync and cloud
distribution (see non-goals).

### What is a VaultKeeper lease?

An encrypted, serializable capability token that occupies the env-var slot *instead of* a
secret. It carries expiry, a usage limit, and revocation state; redeeming it requires the

> local vault key (the encryption key vaultkeeper generates at setup and keeps in your

Author: > (the encryption key vaultkeeper generates at setup and keeps in your configured backend — only the vaultkeeper process on this machine can use it, enforced by the backend's own access control plus owner-only file permissions on the encrypted key state)

I think this is the right concept to communicate, but maybe it's going to read better if we frame it as almost a little mini story where in the beginning of this section we say when you set up Vault Keeper on a machine, it creates a key pair that only it has access to. We should probably have a name for this like "minting key" or something (feel free to brainstorm and choose a different name).

And then you can move on to articulating leases and the role this special key has in that process, why users should care about this, etc...

Author: Rebuilt as the mini-story: setup creates the minting key (name adopted — it pairs with leases being minted/redeemed); then leases, the key's role, and why the reader should care.

configured backend — only the vaultkeeper process on this machine can use it, enforced by the
backend's own access control plus owner-only file permissions on the encrypted key state), so
a lease captured into a log aggregator or bug report is dead on arrival anywhere else. Signing
leases are the same idea for signing keys: holding one lets a process *ask vaultkeeper to
produce signatures* with a key it never sees — minted with human presence at launch, usable
non-interactively until expiry, revocable individually or per-key.

> ### How do I adopt this without rewriting my tools?

Author: I feel like we might want two sections here and one is oriented towards the tool user. And the real question here is how can I use VaultKeeper with my existing tools that have no knowledge of what VaultKeeper is? And that is roughly the section that you already have here. But then you might have a second section that's about library and tool authors who seek to offer pathways for secrets management and use. And this is more the embed case, using VaultKeeper as a library (potentially unbeknownst to the user of their tool/library)

Author: Split as suggested: the tool-user question ('How do I adopt this without rewriting my tools?') and a new library/tool-author section covering the embed case — integrate once, support whatever store the user has, potentially unbeknownst to them.

> You don't adopt vaultkeeper wholesale — you upgrade **one secret at a time**, and each secret

Author: ```suggestion
You don't have to adopt vaultkeeper wholesale — you may upgrade **one secret at a time**, and each secret
```

Author: Applied as suggested.

sits at whichever of three levels fits it. Nothing forces a migration: a single profile can
hold secrets at different levels side by side, indefinitely, so there is no cliff where
everything must convert at once and no penalty for upgrading one credential while its
neighbors stay put.

1. **Environment variables holding plaintext secrets in your terminal or tool config** (an
   `export GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_…` in `.bashrc`, a token pasted into `mcp.json` or a `.env`) —
   the status quo being replaced. The secret sits on disk in plaintext, readable by anything,
   forever.
2. **Resolved at launch, never on disk.** You run the same tool through
   `vaultkeeper run`, and the secret is fetched from your backend and handed *only to that
   one process, for that one run*. If you have ever thought "I just need to pass this key to
   this one command without leaving it lying around in a file" — this is that, made routine.

>    The tool is unmodified; the difference from level 1 is that the secret is no longer

Author: ```suggestion
   The tool is unmodified; the difference from using `.env` files with secrets in plaintext is that the secret is no longer
```
avoid referring to levels by number and just concisely state the pattern we're referring to

Author: Applied — level-number references removed in favor of naming the pattern (.env files with plaintext secrets).

>    floating around on disk for every other process, backup, and sync client to see.

Author: Superseded by the 1.0 reframe — the doc now describes the 1.0 target throughout, with the 'Is everything here real today?' anchor pointing at the tracker for current status; no exec/run hedging remains.

> 3. **The process gets a lease, not the secret.** At level 2 the chosen process still holds

Author: ```suggestion
3. **The process gets a lease, not the secret.** When raw secrets (e.g. API keys) are made available to a process at launch, the chosen process still holds
```

Author: Applied as suggested.

   the real GitHub key. At level 3 it holds a vaultkeeper lease instead: a token that — under
   the right conditions — lets operations be performed *with* a key the process never has any
   direct access to. Those "right conditions" are yours to define: a time window, a usage
   count, and — because vaultkeeper sits in the middle of every call — policy **more granular
   than the target system itself can express**. GitHub's permission model cannot say "may
   update issues, but only ones carrying this label"; a delegated fetch through vaultkeeper
   can, because each invocation is evaluated against your policy before the key is ever used.
   This level requires the consuming tool to speak vaultkeeper; today that means first-party
   tooling, by choice (a language-agnostic local redemption endpoint is a named future epic,
   gated on an installed base worth integrating against).

> ### Does this work for AI-agent fleets?

Author: I might in this section also mention that in a world where agents are more and more involved in writing software, we also have a need to deterministically guard certain things that must be performed by humans. And VaultKeeper powers a solution for this as well through its sibling product, [`attest-it`](https://github.com/mike-north/attest-it)

Author: Added — the agent-fleet answer now closes with the deterministically-human need and links attest-it as the sibling that powers it, with vaultkeeper holding the signing keys.

It is one of the primary design cases. Agents need credentials but must not *hold* them in any
durable way; some agents (e.g. an adjudicator that signs policy-change proposals) need signing
identities that the agents they govern cannot extract or invoke. vaultkeeper's answer: keys born
inside a backend and never exported; signatures produced backend-side; session-scoped signing
leases minted at harness launch with presence proven once; and honest documentation that
*non-invocability* additionally requires OS-level isolation between the privileged harness and
the processes it governs — custody cannot substitute for process isolation, and we say so.

### Can a signature prove a human was present?

> Not in what ships today, but the path exists and is on the roadmap. Presence is enforced at

Author: > Not in what ships today

let's just add this to the roadmap rather than bake it into the PRFAQ as not shipping early on. This seems fairly important and we should just take on the work and write the PRFAQ from the perspective of it landing at launch.

Author: Done, and generalized: the whole document is now explicitly the 1.0 PRFAQ, written from launch perspective without hedging. The assurance answer is affirmative ('Yes — at two strengths'), and #320 tracks the work (both mechanisms, trust roots, attest-it wire-format coordination).

signing time by capable backends and is visible to the local caller; the resulting signature,
however, does not yet carry that fact to a verifier. Two mechanisms can close the gap. The
strongest is **presence-bound keys**: when a key lives in hardware whose signing policy

> requires a physical touch (a YubiKey with touch-required, a Secure-Enclave key gated on

Author: I might broaden this slightly so that it's clear. We strive to be able to integrate with a wide range of human-in-the-loop solutions. It's not restricted to requiring human touch. It could be a website with a captcha in front of an approval and the human has to click or they have to use a passkey or something like that. But the whole point is we're aiming for things that require human in the loop approval and an indication of human presence at the moment of approval (this is a solved problem in the esignature world, for example)

Author: Broadened — presence now explicitly spans human-in-the-loop approval generally: passkey ceremonies, authenticated web approval behind a CAPTCHA, the e-signature-world pattern; the point is trustworthy indication of human involvement at the moment of approval, not touch specifically.

biometrics) and that policy is attested at enrollment, then *every* valid signature from that
key is proof of presence by construction — nothing extra to encode, nothing to forge. The
complementary mechanism is a **vaultkeeper-signed assurance assertion** bound into the signed
payload, covering backends where the property is enforced by vaultkeeper rather than by the
hardware itself (with the honest caveat that its trust root is the vault, not the physical
token). Sequencing verifier-visible assurance is a design question shared with downstream
attestation tooling, which currently treats the distinction as consumer-side convention.

### How do humans and automation coexist as signers?

Identically. An identity is an Ed25519 keypair; nothing about being a human or an agent pins an
identity to a role. What differs is **custody** — an attribute of the identity that can
strengthen over time (file-backed today, presence-gated hardware tomorrow) without the identity
becoming a different actor. Role semantics (who may author, who may approve) belong to the
verifying system's policy, not to vaultkeeper.

> ### What about testing? Secrets tooling is notoriously untestable.

Author: It's certainly not untestable, it's just annoying and difficult to test. And the idea is VaultKeeper has those annoying tests so you don't have to write them.

Author: Adopted nearly verbatim: not untestable, annoying and difficult — vaultkeeper owns the annoying tests so consumers don't write them.

behind paid business tiers or cloud subscriptions. And even the paid tiers only offer stronger
*mechanisms* for who may access which secrets; none of them let you define policy over the
conditions of each individual use.

vaultkeeper unbundles **storage** from **policy**. Your secrets live in whatever backend you
already trust — today: macOS Keychain, 1Password, a YubiKey, Windows DPAPI, the Linux Secret
Service (`secret-tool`), or an encrypted file store, with further stores (Dashlane and others)
on the table wherever demand appears, since a backend is a small adapter over a stable
interface — and vaultkeeper supplies the governance layer those stores lack: capability tokens
scoped by expiry, usage count, and executable identity; per-use human-presence requirements
(a Touch ID tap or YubiKey touch *for this operation, right now*); delegated access patterns
where the raw secret never enters the calling process at all; and full local revocation.

Adoption is a gradient, not a rewrite, and the wrapper works on anything that reads
environment variables. Wrap an MCP server so the PAT leaves the config file

> (`vaultkeeper run --profile github-mcp -- npx @github/mcp-server`); wrap an ordinary CLI for

Author: Declining this one deliberately: the pnpm-only convention governs contributors working in this repository, but this example depicts an end user's mcp.json — and npx is the ecosystem-standard invocation in MCP server documentation everywhere. A product example should read as what users actually write; pnpm dlx here would make it less recognizable to the reader it serves.

> (`vaultkeeper run --profile github-mcp -- npx @github/mcp-server`); wrap an ordinary CLI for

Author: Adjudicated as not an issue: the npx here is the end user's own MCP-server launch command being wrapped by vaultkeeper run — npx is the MCP ecosystem's standard invocation, and user-facing docs should mirror real usage. The repo's pnpm-only convention governs development within this repository, not what users type.
